[MUSIC PLAYING]
I'm so happy to have
caught up with Manjir again.
I've known you for
a few years now.
And first introduced-- you
were first introduced to me
by your book "Punk Science,"
which is a really interesting
view of black hole theory.
Because it's not this thing that
gobbles up light and life never
to have it emerge again,
but rather something
that's a creative force.
And we're going to get into that
as part of "The Genius Groove,"
your new book, which I love.
I love this.
And I think it's so
intriguing to people
because everybody is looking
for their genius groove,
on one level or another.
But they don't know
how to find it.
So let's start more toward the
beginning of this story as us
as little, wee ones.
-Yeah.
A lot of people-- well,
everybody starts out
with more of a clear
idea of who they
are, what they want in life.
Certainly, as a medical doctor,
I would ask people, what
did you want to do as a child?
And immediately, they would
shift into a different space.
And you know, it was more--
it was tuning into more
of the deepest
aspects of themselves,
even if it was a train driver
or something like that.
So we do go into education.
A lot of us go into some
sort of state education.
And it tends to be really
beaten out of us, you know.
Not literally, but
often [INAUDIBLE].
People start to realize
that as a little kid,
you're nice and free.
And everything is self-directed.
And then we start to tell
people, tell our children
that everything about their
value is outside of themselves
and the correct
answer is something
that is outside of them.
And that's a paradigm
that we learn early on.
And that really sticks with us
to the point when we get to-- I
think kids get to
about 11 to 15,
they're no longer
as imaginative.
They're looking at-- and you
know studies have shown this.
They're not able to think of
as many different responses
and creative ideas.
So really, we're seeing
this process going on.
And a lot of the schooling is
actually responsible for that.
It's not only the
schooling, too.
Isn't it from the
time we're born?
We have the influences from our
families which are telling us
how things should be
and should not be.
And then we also have
religions telling us
what we should
and should not do.
I mean, all the way through, you
take this wild, little flower.
And we start restricting it.
So instead of unfurling, it
starts-- the blossom starts
closing back up, it seems.
Absolutely.
It certainly does happen from
lots of different influences.
I guess I'm kinda lucky,
you know, in-- just to show
the difference, because
with my parents,
they actually didn't have a lot
of the strict times of bedtimes
and all of those
sorts of things.
And it's interesting.
Because my sisters
and I do think
kind of more freely
than a lot of people,
although we did go to-- all
went to a private school
which was quite arduous
and everything like that.
So yeah, there are a lot
of different influences.
And I have to say
I did enjoy school.
I think, you know, even with
that system that actually, you
know, teaches you to
trust outside of yourself,
some people do flourish in it.
So I'm not sort of slamming
the system as a whole.
Because I think it-- there are
rather, obviously, good things
that people get out of it.
You can read and write and--
-Right.
Oh, sure.
-Yeah, sure.
But--
There are functionally
good things.
Yeah.
And there are some people
who are living so far
in the right side of
the brain that you kind
of need to herd it in a bit
just to be able to focus,
for example.
MANJIR SAMANTA-LAUGHTON: Yeah.
But I'm really talking more
about just the creative aspect.
MANJIR SAMANTA
LAUGHTON: Yeah, yeah.
That seems to be sidelined.
And I don't know
about in England.
Maybe you can tell us.
In America, as a result
of budgetary constraints
and so forth, one of the
first things that went
were music and art programs.
And so the time for
creativity within institutions
was really eliminated.
What's it like here?
It seems to be getting worse.
I mean, I'm not
an educationalist.
But certainly, I've seen in
my time as a doctor that kids
as young as seven years
old were going pale with--
and getting actually anemic,
some of them, you know,
through the stress of actually,
you know, the schooling,
the tests, the after-school
violin lessons,
the swimming lessons--
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
-- the schedule.
You know.
Yeah.
And we're putting
more and more pressure
at a younger and younger age.
And they have this sort
of adult look about them
now that, you know, you never
used to see in children.
No, they used to goof off.
You have this kind of, like,
you know, "I have to perform"
sort of look, which is--
-Right.
So that seems to be definitely
more on the increase,
instead of people sort of
stepping back and going,
OK, we're not getting
the results we want,
maybe it's the system
we've got to look at,
they're just ramping
up the system.
And I think whatever sort
of creativity a person has,
whatever is their genius
groove, which is, you know,
the true calling that every
soul has that they've come
to the planet for-- and
it could be science,
or it could be, you know,
artistic-- you know,
what we normally
call as artistic.
Definitely for me, my
creativity involves science--
REGINA MEREDITH: Right.
--which is, you
know, not what people
normally think of creativity.
-But it is.
It's my-- it's part
of my creativity.
I think it's more
important that we
constantly tell people
that their worth is
outside of themselves.
And that's the important thing.
And with "Genius Groove,"
what I wanted to do
is to provide this idea--
the IQ and testing and all
of these things are
scientifically now being
proved to be inconsistent.
It's not the deep science.
So you can't look to an IQ
test to tell you who you are.
You can't look to your
genetics, as, you know,
Bruce Lipton has now
revealed so eloquently.
So you know, these ideas
that, it's all in my genes,
I can't change it.
That's just my
intelligence, you know,
that my genes create how big
my brain is, how big my IQ is.
You know, now we're seeing that
these ideas are not scientific.
And that's what I really
wanted to get across.
I want to talk about
that a little bit more.
Let's talk about-- I think
his name was Alfred Binet.
-Yes.
-Is that correct?
Alfred Binet, the man
who invented the IQ test.
Let's-- because we've
already opened this up,
let's talk about what it
was originally intended
for, what he saw
it as being useful
for, and what became of it.
Well, it's interesting how
the originator of the IQ test
actually wanted it
to help children
who had learning difficulties,
as we would call it today.
And it got taken
up by other people
and then used as a
form of, you know,
as a form of testing
for eugenics and more
sort of sinister type
of things to prove
that different races weren't
as clever as other races.
So it's got appropriated.
And it's being used
in a way that it
was never really intended for.
But we have this fixed
idea now in society
that IQ tells us who we are
and how intelligent we are--
Yeah, right.
And, you know, also,
if you fit the bill,
if you look like a
white male with crazy
and you look kinda like
Einstein or something,
you know, you're gonna be
cleverer, which is, you know,
also where we're headed.
We have this image of genius,
that it's only these things,
you know, that it's
only someone who
looks the part, who
has this, you know,
fixed number called IQ.
But you know, everybody
knows the story of Einstein.
Nobody recognized
that he was, you know,
someone who was
particularly tuned in.
You know, when he was a child,
he was always being told--
Oh, he was very dysfunction.
Exactly.
So but when Einstein
died, we actually found
that people examined his brain.
A neuroscientist, she
looked at his brain
and discovered that
his parietal lobes
were actually wider than in
a lot of people's brains.
And at that point when she
was examining the brain,
we didn't realize
that people could
actually-- the brain structure
could actually be altered.
So that's really interesting.
Well, let's talk about that.
What are the parietal lobes?
What is normally
assigned to them by way
of function or performance?
Well, it's interesting.
Because I think, you
know, a lot of people
see that as a sort of
creative sort of aspect.
But you know, for me, I don't
think you can assign a function
to a part of the brain.
And--
Right.
And we're going
to get into that.
But what was the significance of
finding that his parietal lobes
were wider than average?
Well, people started to wonder
if it was something that he did
in terms of spatial
recognition that actually--
the parietal-temporal lobes are
usually associated with that.
I don't believe that
it's as simple as that.
Right.
But that's what people
started to wonder.
And it was also his glial cells,
the actual-- which are actually
the fatty cells
associated with neurons
that actually increased.
And a lot of people don't
think they're even important.
Well, yeah, but, see, you
know, the way you look at it
and the larger story that we'll
get into here in a little bit--
maybe the alteration
in the glial cells
and the parietal
lobes has more to do
with the ability of
simply processing data,
if you're looking at the
brain as nothing more
than a transmitter-receiver
data processor.
Yeah.
I think what was happening
was Eisenstein was putting
his attention on something.
And the more he was putting
his attention on something,
the brain responded.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
The brain wasn't primary
in that situation.
And we can also see that in
taxi drivers-- London cabbies,
for example.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
You know, we've seen the
famous study where we've
seen their parietal
lobes actually increase,
as well and with all the tests
that they have to go through,
quite rigorous tests.
So it's interesting.
And somebody mentioned,
people who are habitual liars
have changes in their
brains, as well.
Well, that would make sense.
Because you have to
maintain a lot more data
if you're going to be a liar.
You have to remember all the
stories you've told, right,
so that you cover your tracks.
That would make--
that would create
a lot of-- a need for a
lot more data to be stored.
Exactly.
And now all this really
comes down to-- you know,
we've got to move away from
this idea that genius is outside
of ourselves, genius is only
certain people who have,
you know, the right
genetics, the right IQ,
that look the part--
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
[LAUGHTER]
Yes, exactly.
Well, and as you talked about
in your book, which-- commenting
about Sir Isaac
Newton, which right
now, you have a little bit of
a rift within the scientific
community.
They're saying we have to
move beyond Newtonian physics
and all that.
It's time to move on.
Yet at the same
time, in his day,
he was brilliant
and revolutionary.
But he was more than that.
And this is the part
people don't know.
And maybe you could
share a little bit.
Yeah.
I think he-- at
the end of the day,
I think Newton really wanted
to understand the universe
as a whole that
included anything to do
with what he might call "God."
And you know, he was
obsessed with the occult.
And he actually had more papers,
more writings on the occult
looking at alchemy,
looking at what was hidden,
than his actual
mathematical papers.
And what's happened is I
think we've taking the math,
and we've left
everything else behind.
And as a result, I think it's
become the master calculus.
It's become very sterile
for children and for kids.
Yes.
They don't understand when
you're looking at calculus,
you're actually looking
deep into the universe.
And you're actually
understanding
the very patterns and the
very fabric of the universe.
That's interesting, because
he was a holistic thinker.
And so again the system
has taken the bits
that it needs that it can be
reduced in a very mechanistic
way in the educational
system and forgotten
about the holism of even the
greatest thinkers of our time.
And Einstein was more of a
holistic thinker in many ways,
too, wasn't he?
Absolutely.
I think he's-- he's absolutely--
so much has been written.
And people are always
quoting him on Facebook
about his holistic thinking.
And I think,
ultimately, people who
have these great breakthroughs
in science-- Faraday
included, you know, he was a
very-- his spirituality was
very important to
him-- they're actually
looking in a holistic way.
And they want to
understand the all of it.
And it's people who come later
and they throw away the holism
and they take the bare bones,
the mechanistic part, and
that's what we're left with.
And wouldn't it be more
interesting if we took
the whole story to children?
Absolutely.
And not only that--
how they came up
with their various
mathematical formulas and such.
Because oftentimes, it was
in what we would normally
call an altered state
of consciousness,
maybe crossover state into dream
time or simply daydreaming.
I mean, you've had
these experiences.
I have, as well.
They had those experiences.
MANJIR SAMANTA
LAUGHTON: Absolutely.
That's what led to
these discoveries,
was the very opposite of what
the kids are being taught.
Yeah.
Can you imagine if you
told children to daydream
all the time like Einstein?
[LAUGHTER]
Wouldn't that be wonderful?
Yes, it would be wonderful.
There should be time
every day for daydreaming.
I guess that used to
be called nap time.
In fact, years ago, my
son was-- many years ago--
when he was a little
one in nursery school,
he was telling me
about something
that was really quite shocking
about himself in another time.
And I said, where
did you see that?
And he said, oh, I was supposed
be taking a nap at Busy Bee.
And he was lying there.
And he was tapped into
something in England,
as a matter of fact--
a place he knew
nothing of at the age of three.
I had a retweet about Regina.
So I love those stories
about your son and--
Well, I mean, the point
is he was just expanding
into his own field, the
same as anyone else's
when they're coming up with
any of these genius moments
that we then inherent
and become incorporated
into our formal education.
But let's-- do you think that
this would be the right time
to start exploring
into the notion of what
people are really tapping into?
MANJIR SAMANTA-LAUGHTON: Yes.
And-- and I know this takes
us back into "Punk Science"
and the black hole theories.
But I think it's
really appropriate.
Because if you understand
that, then we can understand
what genius really is.
-Well, yes.
Because if you-- if we
take-- if we've already
said that genius is
not just about-- well,
it's not about
what's in your genes.
Because, as Bruce Lipton
has said, you know,
the genes-- and we've found
out in mainstream biology--
the genes aren't in control.
The genes-- people
still have this idea
that everything-- all
their characteristics, all
their personality, everything
that they-- all their traits,
including their intelligence,
are all based in their genes.
We now know that through
the Human Genome Project
and others studies like
that, that, you know,
it's not about that.
We've got the same genome as,
you know, as a dog, as a mouse.
Well, and half the
genes of a rice plant.
MANJIR SAMANTA-LAUGHTON: Yes.
[LAUGHTER]
That kind of puts
it in perspective.
I remember 60,000--
MANJIR SAMANTA
LAUGHTON: That's right.
--in rice plants, 30,000,
roughly, in human beings.
Now they're saying less
than that in humans.
So you know, that sort
of says-- and we expected
to find-- you know,
we're so big and clever,
we're gonna have like, you
know, 150,000, at least.
So we know it's not
our genetic complexity.
We know it's not our genetics.
And that's coming from
mainstream biology now.
-Yes.
-And not everybody's caught up.
But the real people
at the cutting edge
have kind of left this idea
that genes make us who we are.
So where do we go from there?
If it's not our
genes, if it's not--
if that isn't the basis of
IQ and all those things,
where does genius come from?
And the new idea is coming
not just from myself,
but other authors, as
well, Ervin Laszlo,
and people like Liam McTaggart.
They're talking about the
quantum vacuum and the fact
that in quantum physics,
we have this idea
of particles of light popping
in and out of existence all
around us.
And those particles of light
also hold a lot of information.
So we probably have all heard
of wave particle duality--
the particles are seen
as waves or particles,
depending on how
you look at them.
So waves of light, when you
actually-- when they actually
intersect, the intersection
points create--
they're the most efficient
storage system that we know of,
you know.
So that's what's surrounding us.
I had a dream about
that many years ago.
Oh, did you?
And that's exactly
what I was shown.
I was shown this
electrical grid.
And it was showing
that the vector
points-- intersection
points-- is
where information was stored.
And this was 20 years ago.
And I didn't know quite what
to make of it at the time.
But then when I read about
this in your book, I thought,
makes perfect sense.
Oh, that's amazing.
So that's really good
validation that, you know,
we are actually living in
this holographic universe.
Yes.
And what that means is just
when you take a hologram
that people create on a
sort of photographic film,
and you cut piece up, and
you shine a laser through it.
You don't just get a
small part of the image.
You get the whole image.
So is the actual universe
itself being seen as a hologram.
And I want to emphasize
that this isn't just
coming from people that
are woo-woo scientists that
are at the edge.
REGINA MEREDITH: No, not at all.
You know, this is some of the
mainstream scientists or people
working in loop quantum gravity
And other areas of science,
you know.
The people-- the physicists
in the universities themselves
are saying that the
universe is a hologram.
So that means that whenever
you are in the universe,
you can actually
access all around you
the information of the whole.
So the new view of genius
is that the brain is not
the generator of consciousness.
People have looked
in newer science
to try and find that little
lump that is consciousness.
And they can't find it.
And so what you're
doing is the brain
is then sort of a receiver
and a transmitter, really.
And so consciousness
is everywhere.
Amit Goswami famously says the
consciousness is fundamental,
and that's the
fundamental of being.
It's the ground of all being.
It is everywhere.
And the information is stored
in these light intersection
points around us.
And we can tune in.
And we-- depending on what
is our unique frequency,
we can actually tune in and
take the information through
our brains and articulate them.
And the more still we are,
like your son in Busy Bee--
[LAUGHTER]
--the more that
we can, you know,
come out of space and
time and the deeper
we're going into this field, so
the more authentic the message
is that comes through.
And you know, people say all
the time about those moments
of inspiration,
including my own,
come when we're
not expecting them,
when we're about to fall asleep,
when we've just woken up,
when we're meditating,
when we're doing
something that takes us
out of space and time,
deeper into the field.
We can tune more
into that unique--
the information that's there.
But we're all
different receivers.
And that's our
unique genius groove.
Everybody has their
own frequency.
They resonate with the
field in a different way.
And they bring through their
own unique information.
Everybody's a
genius in that way.
Absolutely.
And the thing is it
requires an access point.
And interestingly, the
brain does come into play.
We do have conscious
thoughts, as well,
which we-- tend to be, sadly,
habitual most of the time.
Most of it is very-- we're
running our programs.
In fact, a lot of people
notice it's-- to me,
it's very disturbing if
I fall into this pattern.
But if I notice that my
thoughts are the same as the day
before or the day before
and my mind is wandering
toward the same
places over and over,
I know that there's
trouble in here somewhere.
And I'll do whatever I
can to shake that loose.
Because that
habituation is really
acting as a block, or
a filter, over keeping
the contact between ourselves
and the field at bay.
Absolutely.
And we do see-- as I said,
you know, what we focus on,
we do see neurological changes.
But it's the actual
consciousness itself
that is fundamental to that.
REGINA MEREDITH: Right.
You know, when we actually
do studies on the brain,
we have to provide some sort of
stimulation to get the respond.
REGINA MEREDITH: And we
have to make choices.
Exactly.
We do have to make
a decision that we're
going to even explore, right?
MANJIR SAMANTA-LAUGHTON:
Yes, yeah.
I mean, so where
does that figure in?
Because you have this
brain that is habitual,
that can provide-- act
as a filter, rather.
And yet at the
same time, you need
to have some kind of
command over your brain,
at least to the point where you
can initiate a choice, right?
I don't think that
the brain is the
primary habit-forming thing.
It's actually the consciousness.
-More the subconscious?
Yeah.
It's the consciousness.
You have to always
bring that down to that.
At the end of the day, if
you take a bit of brain
and go deep enough,
you know, all you're
gonna find is consciousness.
There is nothing there.
We know, of course, when
you break down an atom
and you go down
the brain itself,
your body itself, it
is all consciousness.
It is information fundamentally.
And I think it would be
better to say that what we call
the conscious mind, which
is the habituated part,
it's not actually
the expansive part.
That's the part
that's-- that keeps
us from bumping into things.
MANJIR SAMANTA-LAUGHTON: Yeah.
And then you have
the consciousness,
the full consciousness
of the being.
Well, I think the
whole lot is actually
based on consciousness,
and the brain responds.
Yes.
And keeping it that
way is actually,
really, a lot more simple.
And it's a lot more
useful, as well.
So you know, it's like
you're not so focused.
The brain is simply responding.
And it also sends the
signals to the body.
And so that is-- that's
a complex, you know,
function in itself.
But I think when it comes
to our what you might call
conscious thoughts, you've still
got to keep it in the realm
of consciousness itself.
And that's your subconscious
emotions that are repeating
something for some reason.
And it's more useful
to actually go back
in your own consciousness
and explore why that is
and not so focused on,
well, my brain's doing it.
You know, because your
brain's just responding to it.
You know, there's something
in your consciousness
as a being that's actually
sort of creating--
You know, that's
a good distinction.
Whichever that part is that
you choose to use in a focused
manner-- the part that
I'm referring to--
is the part that
also can be used
to be able to expand
out into your more
vast realm of consciousness.
MANJIR SAMANTA
LAUGHTON: Absolutely.
Because it actually
does take a decision.
This isn't something that just
happens, for the most part.
Yes, you can have your
transcendental momentary flash
of insight.
But to be able to progress and
go into partnership with it,
doesn't that require something
a little more committed?
Absolutely.
And that's the sort of
becoming into awareness
and to actually get the
awareness that you are
having habitual
consciousness thoughts
and that is going around.
That's the sort of light bulb
moment for a lot of people.
And to actually
go on from there,
to actually go, well,
where do those come from?
That's when you get
into the emotional work.
Yes.
OK.
And so we're going
to go into that.
And then we're going to
also go into something
called negative timelines.
Now, I think that's probably
the most controversial
portion of your work.
And the most liberating.
And the most-- absolutely--
and most comforting and the most
liberating.
But it's a little
difficult for people
to get their minds around.
So since we're still
kind of in the-- we're
in the consciousness,
black hole theory
part of the conversation.
Is that a good time to start
looking at negative timelines?
Or would you rather talk about
the emotional part first?
MANJIR SAMANTA
LAUGHTON: Yeah, I think
it seems like a bit of a
flow to go onto the emotions.
OK, let's go on to
the emotions, then.
OK.
Because, really, a lot of
the stuff we're responding to
is almost-- well,
it's saturating
the very intelligence within
the cells of our body,
a lot of the habituated stuff.
MANJIR SAMANTA-LAUGHTON: Yes.
That happens even before birth.
And so tell us about
ourselves as emotional beings
from before birth.
I think this is
really key if you are
to get into your genius groove.
Because the reason
why people don't is
because there's something that's
blocking them emotionally.
And emotions are
really denigrated
in a lot of teachings.
I don't think they're just
something coming from a part
of the body or anything.
Although, the body does
respond, as Steven Sisgold
has written that excellent
book-- hasn't he-- on,
you know, how that works.
But you've got to see emotions--
I see emotions as consciousness
below the speed of light.
Yes, yes.
Consciousness below the
speed of light, yes.
So below the speed of
light, consciousness
takes on the aspect of charge.
And it's those charges
and the split that
happen below the speed
of light that we are then
trying to integrate, you know.
So but how it effects
us in our world is,
you know, as you said, even
before birth, we come in,
our soul, as you might
say, or our sort of essence
comes in with a
[INAUDIBLE], anyway,
and chooses the parents that
are going to give them exactly--
give you exactly the--
exactly what you need,
exactly what you need
to learn in that life.
And you go through--
a friend of mine
calls it sort of a
primary-- a primary event.
And they sometimes can
happen in the womb.
And so she writes about
how the primary event then
attracts the secondary events.
So because what that does
is it shifts the frequency
of the person through the
initial emotional sort
of frequency in the change.
And then the
secondary events are
then attracted to that person.
And then everything else
in that person's life--
Give us an idea
of a primary event.
A primary event,
for example, I did
a treatment on a young
guy who had a sort
of ME type of illness and--
-He had what type of illness?
-I'm sorry.
Chronic fatigue.
-Chronic fatigue, OK.
Yeah, chronic
fatigue-type of illness.
Very young.
And he-- when I actually
went through the process--
because whenever I work--
whenever I used to work
with children-- I no
longer work as a healer--
but I always wanted
the mother there.
Because when you actually
go through the process,
you actually
realize that there's
something that has happened
when that child was in the womb.
There's always something
that the mother is
probably feeling guilty about.
There may be a huge argument.
There may have been,
you know, even an almost
splitting with the father.
There's something
that's happened.
And usually, the mother
has a huge amount
of shame about that incident.
And so usually when
you work with children,
you can go back to
this primary incident.
If the mother is around,
she'll eventually admit
that, yes, this has happened.
It's stuck in her mind.
And there's-- you know, she
doesn't often talk about it.
Because she has a lot of guilt.
So if you have a sick child,
you can often do that.
So that softens-- it may
not be as extreme as that.
But usually, there's,
like, a primary incident
that happens either in the
womb or in early childhood.
And that changes their frequency
to attract other things
towards-- towards that person.
And then everything
else in their life,
basically, is a complex
of that, you know.
Yes.
So you can take incidents
that are happening as an adult
and trace it back to something
that happened as a child,
right back to this
primary incident.
And then that, naturally,
starts driving us
toward the conversation
of free will
and choice points and genius.
Because, ultimately, you
would have to say that child
chose that family.
MANJIR SAMANTA-LAUGHTON: Yeah.
That being chose that
experience if we're
going down this road, right?
Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
So even though it sounds
like a bad thing, you know,
really, there's no judgement.
REGINA MEREDITH:
Not necessarily.
There's no judgment.
It is what it is.
The choices are made at a very,
like, high level of ourselves,
beyond the speed of light.
Oh, well, we're going to
get into that in some depth.
Yes.
We're going to take
just a wee, little break.
OK.
And in just a minute,
we'll come back.
And we'll talk about free will.
What is free will?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And we're back talking with
Dr. Manjir Samanta-Laughton
about the genius groove.
And one thing that
we've learned so far
is that genius is not in
here, it's everywhere but.
And now we need to start getting
into that, everywhere but part.
And if you would like to go
ahead and start explaining how
this all works-- how
consciousness works
and how we take it and
then we start molding it.
And we do have choice points.
But the choices aren't
necessarily always
coming from here, as in the "how
to not bump into things" part.
[LAUGHTER]
That's quite a
small brief, Regina.
Thank you.
[LAUGHTER]
Well, how would you
like me to start?
Can we break that down a bit?
'Cause that's the-- that's
the universe and everything.
Yes we did.
We're getting into a bit of the
science behind it now as-- you
were talking about--
we were coming out
of the subject of emotions--
MANJIR SAMANTA-LAUGHTON: Yeah.
--and now going into a bit
of the principles behind it.
Because I want this to
lead us to both free will
and negative timelines.
Well, let's start with
my own big genius moment.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
And part of the reasons
why I wrote "Genius Groove"
and started this topic
is because, you know,
I didn't do well--
I did OK at school.
Obviously, I got
into medical school
and I went through
medical school.
But I had to work hard for it.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
And every single--
in medical school
itself, I just-- I hated it.
I mean, I was failing exams.
And I really didn't
apply myself.
And you know,
people were telling
me I wasn't going to make it.
And I managed to get through
the five years and, you know,
get through that study.
And then I--
Why did you do it to
begin with, though?
Why did I do it?
I had such a strong drive
from when I was very young.
Even though my parents
are both doctors,
it wasn't a case of them just
saying, OK-- and they did.
They said, you need
to go into medicine,
as a Bengali-British
family, you know,
the sort of traditional things.
Yeah, my grandfather
was a doctor.
And in our society--
in Bengali society--
you need to have at
least somebody who's
in medicine in the family.
[LAUGHTER]
And you were the
designated child
Yeah.
So it's kind of like, you
know, that's just how it is.
You know, you're expected
to go into medicine.
It wasn't just that, though.
I had a big drive
in the-- and now I
see that it was-- we'll
talk about it in a minute--
but, you know, part
of me knew that that's
what I needed to go on to
the rest of-- you know,
my life would unfold from there.
And it has, you know.
And medicine has
been a big part.
And who I've met there and
what happened there has been--
wouldn't have
happened if I hadn't
gone to med school in London.
So it's kind of interesting.
It was driven from me.
But when I got to med school,
the very first lecture
at the dean's address,
I was actually late.
And it kind of set
the whole thing up.
My poor roommate, who I'd only
just met, was seriously ill.
She had gastroenteritis.
And I was so busy helping her,
I didn't get to college in time.
And it kind of set
the whole energy.
And here I am storming
into the dean's address.
And he realized, you know.
But it kind of set the energy.
And I just didn't feel
like it was right for me.
And it sent me into
a massive crisis.
Because I was thinking,
you know, this
is what I wanted all my life.
What's going on?
How come I don't feel motivated?
What's happening?
And so I can't
really say I enjoyed
the whole five years of it.
And I did-- I didn't
do brilliantly.
And I came out of
med school, went
into my what you call
internships, I think,
in the US, and long hours.
And again, I didn't do
very brilliantly in that.
I enjoyed doing the work.
And I learned a lot.
But I was not, like, a top--
You weren't in
your genius groove.
Yeah, I wasn't in
my genius groove.
And I would go on going,
what is it I'm good at?
What-- and at the time, I was
married to a high-flying medic.
And so he was seen as the,
you know, the genius, the one
that was winning
all the scholarships
and the prizes and everything.
And so there was a
very marked difference
between myself and him.
It's interesting who you choose
to do your reflections with.
And it was only
when I, you know,
started speaking on the
science of consciousness
and the science of
spirituality people
started to call me a
genius and started to,
you know, say, well, she's
got the brain the size
of a planet-- I'm thinking,
how does it go from-- I'm
the same person.
How does it go from--
A mediocre med student to a
brain the size of a planet.
Yeah.
And of course, it was
getting into the genius
groove that was the thing.
And so for me, my particular
way that I relate to the field
and the information
in the universe
is I can kind of see
how the universe works.
I can see into things.
And I get information through.
And one particular
incident of that
gave me what I'm calling
the Black Hole Principle.
And so again, I was-- I'd
started writing "Punk Science."
And again, I was in one of those
moments that you're kind of not
focused on something.
And I just decided to sort of
sit on the branch of a tree,
as I think we've
discussed before.
And it all came through, this
sort of-- I actually was in it.
It's hard to describe, because
it's not like I was seeing it.
And it was not like
I was thinking it,
or even that it channeled.
Because I do channel.
I know what that feels like.
It was being in the
consciousness of nature itself.
And the vastness of
that is quite amazing.
And within-- I don't even
know how long that moment was.
But suddenly, all the
pieces came together
of all the problems in
cosmology I'd been looking at
and a lot of the sort
of things-- aspects
of dark energy, dark matter.
All of that suddenly
came together.
And I suddenly
realized that we've got
black holes completely wrong.
And you know, this
picture that black holes
are these great
guzzling monsters,
I realized that's
completely reversed.
And you know, just to give
you-- give a bit of background,
I do talk in "Genius
Groove" why it was I
had all this time
to contemplate.
-Right, right.
-You know.
You have a very juicy
personal story in here,
just so you know that.
The underpinnings of all
this are well-described.
And a lot of it was
very painful for you.
MANJIR SAMANTA-LAUGHTON: Yes.
But nonetheless, you had to
go through your own dark night
of the soul and journey
in order to be able to be
open enough to experience--
MANJIR SAMANTA
LAUGHTON: Absolutely.
--to be able to
do what you do.
And I have lived
these principles.
Yes.
This is why I wanted
to tell my story,
not because I wanted to point
any fingers or anything,
but because I knew that I had
to say, this actually is real.
These principles that I'm
talking about are real.
So what came through
was that black holes
are actually the creative
centers of the universe.
And so what happens
at a black hole is not
this sort of gobbling up,
that, actually, infinite light
comes from the center
of a black hole.
And the light sort of spirals
through all of the dimensions.
And in science, we know
there's many dimensions
to the universe.
And then it gets to the
edge of all reality.
And that, the edge
of all reality,
is at the speed of light.
So I've renamed that
the perception horizon.
Because--
Which is beautiful.
It's-- you couldn't have
found a better term for it.
Oh, thank you.
Perception horizon,
I love that.
Because, you know, really, most
of the universe, the scientists
don't know what's there.
They call it dark
energy, dark matter--
It's just beyond
our perception.
Exactly.
So instead of saying
that it's mysterious,
it's just that we're so
focused on the physical
and what's below the speed of
light, what we can measure.
But actually, most of the
universe is unknown to us.
Talk to any
cosmologist, and they'll
tell you that 99% of
the universe, they
don't know what stuff's made of.
Yet they call it
the standard model.
And they talk about
the end of science.
And it's just like--
Well, and calling
95% of us junk DNA,
I mean, that I found laughable
the first time I ever heard it.
And you're going to talk
about that a bit, yeah.
Well, just because it
doesn't code for a gene,
you know, just
because it doesn't
produce something
physical doesn't
mean it's not doing anything.
-Exactly.
So there's so much
that we need to explore
in both our, you
know, our genome
and also the
universe as a whole.
It's a reflection of the fact
that so much is unknown to us.
So I realized this
in the moment,
that actually what's happening
is the light-- if we can call
it, again, a photon--
it gets to the edge
of our perception, the speed
of light, and it splits.
And it becomes a
positron and electron,
or a particle of
matter, and its partner
mirror particle of antimatter.
And the particle of
matter is what we would
call our everyday reality.
So that creates our world.
And this isn't just something
that I had an insight about.
I spent years actually
looking at all the data
that are coming down
from our telescopes
and finding that this
is actually the case,
that electrons are
coming out of black holes
at the center of galaxies
at the speed of light.
In some measurements,
they've actually
them 25% faster than light.
And they've done a
little bit of fudging.
And they said, well, it's
going to-- you know, we're not
looking at it-- if you
don't look at it straight on
and you calculate for
that, it's actually
95% the speed of light.
So that's what
they'll tell you now.
So why is it they're coming
out so fast and seemingly
out of nowhere?
And if you pick up a
copy of "Scientific
American" or "New
Scientist" and have a look,
this is a mystery to them.
You know, they actually
can't figure out
why this is happening,
because it's only
just reached our perception.
REGINA MEREDITH: Right.
So we see it as
coming out of nowhere,
when, actually,
it's the infinity
that's just slowed down enough
to actually be perceived by us.
I mean, this is a
step-down process--
MANJIR SAMANTA-LAUGHTON: Yeah.
--when you're talking
about multi-dimensionality.
Right?
MANJIR SAMANTA-LAUGHTON: Yeah.
And can you talk
about that a little bit
so people can get a nice
visual in their head
about this stepping down
until it reaches this density
below the speed of light that
we can perceive as reality,
which is 5% of our reality?
It's-- of course, the step-down
process beyond the speed
of light is not-- we
have to think of it
as a step-down process
because we think
of things in a linear way.
-Right.
So science tells us-- string
theory and other theories
like that actually tell us
there are many dimensions
to the universe.
So we're familiar with
three dimensions of space
and one of time.
That's how scientists
think of it.
So we kind of go up and down,
side to side, back and forth.
And we also-- the
extra dimension of time
is that, you know, we decided
to meet at a certain time
today to have this interview.
So I had to get myself
here at the right time.
So that's how we
see this dimension.
But we know from other
certain theories in science
that there are many
dimensions to the universe
and that, also, the
universe is, fundamentally,
vibration, vibrating strings.
That's what string
theory tells us.
So depending on where you
find yourself in the universe,
it's according to that-- sorry.
The vibr-- if I put it the other
way, depending on how-- what
frequency you're at is
the vibration that-- is
the dimension that you're in.
So if you look at
what science tells us,
it sounds quite new-agey.
But actually, it's
exactly what string
theory is saying, that
there are many dimensions
to the universe.
And they create
certain geometries.
And so it depends
on the vibration
as to what dimension you're in.
So there's many, many
different dimensions.
And people themselves
have many dimensions.
Yes.
And that's a very important
part to note here--
we are also multi-dimensional.
We are all multi-dimensional.
It's to the point
where, you know,
you have to wonder-- people
talk about your guardian angel--
if it's simply a
higher aspect of you.
REGINA MEREDITH: Right, right.
And ultimately,
everything is one.
The other part of the
Black Hole Principle
is that the center of the black
hole, it's the same everywhere.
So black holes are not just
the center in the galaxy--
are not just in the
center of galaxies.
They're everywhere.
The universe is a
fractal, and it's
black holes all the way down.
Well, and that's what
I loved about that book,
"Punk Science," is that you
were talking about the fact
that every atom, the atomic
structure itself-- which,
of course, we know is as much
space as our solar system
is-- has a black
hole in its center,
a black hole of creation
taking information
in from other dimensions.
MANJIR SAMANTA
LAUGHTON: Absolutely.
Which is just fascinating.
It is.
It's amazing.
And I'm not the first to really
come across this, either.
And you know, there
have been people,
like Walter Russell and
John Keely and people
throughout the ages, who saw
this in a mystical sense.
But what we have now
is we have the data.
So we're in an era
where we can actually
see the particles coming
out of black holes,
the matter and the antimatter.
And it's happening at every
single-- every single level
of the universe.
Even in the Earth's
upper atmosphere,
it's black holes
all the way down.
So NASA has just sent out some--
to measure the actual gamma
ray flashes and
the-- we've actually
found that the antimatter comes
out of the gamma ray flashes,
just as I would have
predicted, just as I
predicted in "Punk Science."
REGINA MEREDITH:
As you saw it, yes.
Yeah.
So at that point, we hadn't
actually measured it.
But we measured
it like last year.
And so we actually now know
that antimatter comes out
of the terrestrial gamma
ray flashes in the Earth's
upper atmosphere.
And the implications of
this go directly, also,
into the negative timeline.
MANJIR SAMANTA-LAUGHTON: Yes.
So I mean, this has very
personal repercussions.
Yeah, the personal
repercussions.
So what does all this
mean for you if everything
is occurring like this?
Well, at the edge of the
black hole, as I said,
the photon splits
into the electron.
And that becomes our world.
But there's also the
antimatter positron.
And at different levels of
the Black Hole Principle,
it's actually
different particles.
But you know, what
you need to remember
is that there's matter which has
positive time and antimatter.
And the antimatter
world is in a slightly
different frequency to ours.
It's in the realm of c squared.
So we know that
the speed of light
is called little c in
physics a lot of the time.
And so c squared is kind of the
frequency of the mirror world.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
So everything that
happens in our world
that is-- in our world,
you go into positive time.
And in the c squared
region, you've actually
gone into negative time.
So ultimately,
everything cancels out.
And there is no time.
So beyond all of this in
the higher dimensions,
there is no time, just
as all the mystics say.
But actually, below the
c and c squared region,
you've got positive time and
you've got negative time.
So it's kind of like
light pretending to split.
And we live in the
positive time region.
But guess what.
Everything that we do in
the positive time region
has already happened in
the negative time region.
The two timelines are
meeting each other.
Yeah, this has some
deep implications.
But it's also hard for people
to get their minds around.
Yes, absolutely.
I have to say this very gently.
But I have taken a lot of
people through this process.
And when they get it, it's
very, very liberating.
Because what I'm really saying
is everything in your future
has already happened.
So everything that--
so where's the choice?
So people get freaked out
because they're saying,
where is the choice,
where is the choice?
But if you think about it,
it's completely logical.
And it's not something that
I went into this thinking
that that was the truth.
But when I saw
the science of it,
it was like, well,
that has to be.
It's the only way that you can
have the eternal now, in fact.
Because people talk about
the eternal now-- time
doesn't really
exist in relativity.
This is a way that
you can reconcile it.
Because you have the
below the speed of light,
the below the-- below c and
below c squared regions.
And ultimately, they cancel out.
So you have time and no
time at the same time.
And we are eternal,
multi-dimensional beings.
Absolutely.
So because we are
multi-dimensional, the aspects
of ourselves in the c
region that we call,
maybe, the c squared--
I'm sorry, the C.
And we have the c squared.
So the C-- the below the
speed of light aspect--
is the aspect of ourselves
that we call the ego self.
So the ego self doesn't know
what's about to happen to them.
Right.
Psychics can--
we go to psychics
who tune to the c squared.
And they can tell us,
well, you know, I can see.
I've been told that stranger
in your future, or whatever.
Yes.
And that's what
they're drawing from.
MANJIR SAMANTA-LAUGHTON: That's
what they're drawing from.
And also remote viewers that
are viewing into the future.
All those experiments
have been conducted
and are done and dusted.
That's a reality.
Militaries around the world
use the same technique
to be able to gauge
whatever's going to happen
strategically in the future.
So it's not as though
this is woo-woo.
This is flat-out.
It's just covert.
I think it's fair
to say it's covert.
And it's also--
because we don't
know the scientific mechanism,
a lot of people reject it.
REGINA MEREDITH: Right, exactly.
But when you realize that
people are tuning into c
squared, it becomes,
you know-- there's
a mechanism now that we have.
That's not all there
is, too, though.
What's making the choice if--
-Exactly.
You know, if
you're feeling now,
oh, I don't make any
choice in my life,
you're multi-dimensional.
You're also beyond
the c and c squared.
And you're making a choice
at, as you would say,
the soul level, the higher self.
And you decide it.
Because in that region,
there is no space and time.
There is no time.
-Exactly.
So now let's expand on that
with your own experience,
which, in a sense, I've had
a very similar experience,
but in a different way,
a different career path.
But isolating on
that, here you are.
You're born into this Bengali
family that expects to have
a doctor each generation.
You're tagged for it.
So the soul has
already made a choice
to come into this family.
You're not necessarily
enjoying the process of going
through medical school.
You're thinking,
this is a disconnect.
Why am I doing this?
Right?
And yet you're doing it, anyway.
And you can't help yourself.
And something in you
knows from an early age
you're going to do this.
And it wasn't just programming.
So pick it up from
there and talk
about how this works
within us so we really
get the free will part of it.
If everybody looks
back at their lives,
they'll see, gosh, everything
has actually stacked up for me
to do exactly this thing.
So in fact, where's
the choice, you know?
It's like everything has
actually led up-- so it's
not the ego self choosing.
It is the higher self.
And this really did save
my life, this knowledge.
Because when I actually later
on-- and this is explained
in "The Genius Groove"-- but
my mystical abilities alerted
my ex-husband and my parents.
And they were
concerned about me.
When my ex-husband and I
split up, he actually told
my parents about my mystic--
-You were strange.
Yes.
Yeah-- and went into my
computer and, you know,
all of the channellings.
You know how our
sort of community
can look to other people.
Well, you were consuming a lot
of books, a lot of lectures,
as well.
MANJIR SAMANTA-LAUGHTON: Yes.
You were very interested
in the full reach of life.
Exactly, exactly.
And yes, at that point,
I was channeling.
So it was a genuine thing.
It wasn't like it was a hobby.
You know, I am a
multi-dimensional being,
and aware of it.
So it was being expressed.
And I realized that
my marriage, you know,
had to go through this split.
And after that happened, I
found myself with a psychiatrist
on my front door.
And so in that moment,
this knowledge really,
really kept it together for me.
Because yes, it was an awful
lot of pain and difficulty,
but what really brought
me through that.
And I ended up being
referred for my mental health
to the medical board.
And you know, although
they couldn't find anything
wrong with me, I quit anyway.
They were putting
sort of restrictions.
I thought, you know,
this is my message to go.
And the whole time,
knowing this principle
that it's actually your higher
self that has set everything up
was so liberating.
It means that there
are no wrong choices.
There are no, you
know, mistakes in life.
If you-- with me
in that situation,
I did everything that I could
to stop that from happening.
I went to the meetings
that they wanted me to do.
REGINA MEREDITH: You tried to
progress and be a good doctor.
Yes, yeah.
And they still happen.
And I, just in the moment
that that happened, I went,
there's something in this.
This is going to be
the making of me.
Yeah, you needed
those disciplines.
MANJIR SAMANTA-LAUGHTON: Yes.
-You needed the education.
MANJIR SAMANTA
LAUGHTON: Absolutely.
You needed the understanding
of the human body.
MANJIR SAMANTA-LAUGHTON:
Yes, yeah.
I mean, because that is
studying the material aspect.
And you needed that knowledge.
It's such a great foundation.
And you know, to every single
moment that I bring in my life
now, the fact that
I've done a Saturday
night in a busy
emergency room, you know,
that comes in to
everything that I do.
It's a foundation.
So everything happened
in the perfect moment.
So what this really means for
everyone is that your future's
already happened,
which is why you
can at all predict the future.
You know, so that means,
although your ego self may not
know, every single choice that
you make is the right one,
you know.
So you can have no regrets.
Because everything is
unfolding absolutely perfectly.
OK.
Now, with that, let me
play devil's advocate.
And you can explain
to us how this works.
Let's say-- you listened.
You listened to
yourself, which is,
I want to go to medical school.
I'm going to be a doctor.
And you did that.
You listened.
You were driven toward that.
Other people wake
up, maybe, one day
and say they know that,
say, a relationship is over.
They're getting the
signal loud and clear.
They can feel that that's right.
But they decide, no, no,
no, I don't want to do that.
It's too messy, inconvenient.
It would be painful.
For all these reasons,
they decide not
to listen to that voice inside.
And the question
would be, are you
saying that the predisposition
to have made that decision not
to listen to the
higher self would have
already played out in
the other dimensions
for a specific outcome?
MANJIR SAMANTA-LAUGHTON: Yes.
And so all the trouble and
strife that we see in life that
people go through which can
take them down to the ground
into addictive behaviors,
and so on, that the soul
has chosen that for purpose--
MANJIR SAMANTA-LAUGHTON:
Why would they choose that?
Yeah.
Because in that,
there's a learning.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yeah.
So say you don't listen
to your intuition.
A good example--
yesterday, I had
an intuition to go to-- come
down to a certain-- drive
a certain route.
And I didn't listen to it.
I went down another route.
And we ended up in
a really big jam.
And I was going, OK,
this is a great situation
to illustrate that.
Because I felt the
lesson of having not
listened to that voice,
which is perfect.
That's what I need--
I needed to get the
of not listening to the voice.
So all of that is part
of the c squared region.
So once you realize that
even something that appears
a mistake is actually
perfect because you get--
you feel the dissonance
of not having
listened to your intuition.
And that feeling,
the dissonance,
is what you were already
meant to have experienced.
And so that was the lesson,
feeling the dissonance
and not listening
to your inner voice.
And people might be thinking,
well, what's the point, then?
What's the point of
even listening to this?
What's the point of getting
into your genius groove?
Some people--
What's the point of
getting up in the morning?
getting up in the morn--
some people will be hearing
this and be inspired.
And some people
won't be bothered.
Because that's what
they've chosen.
Some people will
never decide to go
for any personal growth in
their life in this incarnation.
And that's fine, too.
That's also what they've chosen.
There's a myriad of
different choices
that people have
at a soul level.
And each one is
playing out perfectly.
Because we are all
aspects of the god
consciousness experiencing
lots of things.
And so some people will never,
you know, go to a, you know,
a channeling or a workshop
or do that personal growth.
Sure.
MANJIR SAMANTA-LAUGHTON:
And that's perfect, too.
But it seems to me that
the reality is also--
it's all one in the same.
MANJIR SAMANTA-LAUGHTON: Yeah.
You still have to live your
mirrored, positive time frame
life.
MANJIR SAMANTA-LAUGHTON: Yeah.
Whether it already exists
in this mirrored universe
is comforting to know in our
other dimensional aspect.
But you still have
to play the game.
You still have to go through
and make your decisions--
Yes, you do.
--and commit yourself
to this or that,
or not, and learn what it feels
like not to have done that.
It doesn't absolve us of any
participation in the creation
of our life, still.
No, you still have to
listen to your heart
to see what's right for you.
But the difference and
the liberation in this
is that every decision, once
you get your mind around this,
is that every
decision, you know,
is going to be the right one.
And it means that there
aren't those regrets there
and that your life is unfolding.
And it also has a
huge implication
for law of attraction.
Because everyone's trying
to manifest, manifest.
But they're manifesting
from their ego self.
Exactly.
I've written about this, too.
[LAUGHTER]
So you know, when they realize
that their reality is created
on a very, very deep level
from them, their higher aspect,
instead of fighting against
their reality and saying,
I don't like my life.
I think I'll manifest a
different one, which is what,
basically, people
are saying when
they're approaching
law of attraction,
especially at the beginning.
That's effectively what
they're telling themselves.
To actually accept
that, actually,
my higher self has created
this moment right now-- why--
and look into the
reasons why and look
into why you are actually--
You just hit it.
That's really it, is, rather
than trying to fantasize
and grow into someone
else's life, per se,
it doesn't mean we can't create.
And it doesn't mean
we can't create
in a bountiful,
beautiful manner.
But to look at where
you are right now
and ask yourself, what's the
potential of learning here,
doesn't that seem to
be the-- that's it.
That's it.
And a lot of people are creating
from a place of avoidance
of their situation right now.
And m, it should be
an integrated process.
And once you realize
that, then you
can start to go through
this process of surrender
to higher self, where you
are going with the flow--
And then you're maybe
listening more often so you
don't end up in a traffic jam.
[LAUGHTER]
I mean, isn't that the
idea of going through life
of refining and refining--
MANJIR SAMANTA
LAUGHTON: Exactly.
--and experiencing more joy,
more freedom, more creativity?
Definitely.
Since I have surrendered--
gone through that process
of surrender of going, you
know, my intellectual ego
self doesn't understand
the situation, but I will--
I understand there's
a bigger picture here,
that process of surrender
has brought me into such
a more expansive life.
Absolutely.
And I don't know what I'm
doing week to week, you know.
And it's the higher self and
the flow that is now leading me.
Well, one thing
that's happening
is energy is melting
behind your work.
You have lots of
requests for interviews.
And also-- I just
want to sneak this
in right now--
"The Genius Groove"
is now an online course.
Is that correct?
Yes.
Yes, excellent.
That will be a multi-media
course with videos from myself.
And there'll be options
to have personal tutoring.
It's through, you know,
getting into your groove
wherever you are in the world
because it's all online.
And so yeah, how to get your
life to-- to be more groovy.
There we go.
And everybody could
use a little groove.
Manjir, I want to thank
you so much for taking
the time to spend with us here
and coming down to Winchester.
It's been great, as always.
Oh, thank you.
REGINA MEREDITH: Thank you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]